{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf460
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red9\green72\blue110;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red47\green51\blue57;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Status Report #1\
Blokes in Blue: John, Tim, and Josh\
\
We have successfully downloaded our data and put most of it into an S3 bucket. We have about 9 gb of data, including crime logs for 12/2010 - 1/2016, crime outcomes from 1/2012-1/2016, and stop and search data from 12/2014-1/2016. This data is all at the lower layer super output area (LSOA) level. In addition, we have LSOA and middle layer super output area (MSOA) level data on some variables which we will use to measure the economic health of an area; hours worked in the past week and unemployment rate.  These data come from the 2011 census. We also have downloaded, but not put into S3 because we\'92re not yet sure which format we want, location data with which to map the MSOAs and LSOAs. Finally, we have downloaded a linking file between LSOAs and MSOAs, in order to aggregate the crime data to the MSOA level. \
\
The police data came in nearly 5000 separate csv files, so we are currently working on combining it into 3 large tables, so as to avoid the small files problem. We are doing this in Spark, and are almost finished. The next step in our project will be to figure out how to create maps with our data. We are focusing more on creating visualizations than doing analysis for this project, as we specified in our proposal, so we will be starting our analytical work after we have figured out the mapping part. We are not yet certain what kinds of analyses we will run, but it is safe to say we will definitely do some regression analysis, using the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/api/python/pyspark.ml.html#module-pyspark.ml.regression"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 pyspark.ml.regression module}}
\f1\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 . 
\fs24 \cf4 We are also thinking about running a clustering analysis, using the
\fs28 \cf2  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/api/python/pyspark.ml.html#module-pyspark.ml.clustering"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 pyspark.ml.clustering module}}
\fs24 . \cf4 The amount of analytical work we ultimately end up doing will depend on how long it takes us to figure out the visualization part. \
\
\cf2 \

\fs28 \cf5 \cb1 \strokec5 \
\

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0  \
\
}